Patriarchy: The decayed roots of Indian culture


According to wikipedia, "Patriarchy (noun) is a social system in which men hold primary power and predominate in roles of political leadership, moral authority, social privilege and control of property."
   In layman's terms, Patriarchy is a male dominated world where every crucial decision of the family is taken by the eldest male of the family no matter how relevant opinions the family's women place. Patriarchy deeply exists in the roots of Indian culture. Indian traditions that have been followed since ages have been pointing towards patriarchy in ways one might not even notice.
    Its rightly said that patriarchy begins from home. We are brought up looking at the day-to-day examples of how women's voices are suppressed. We grew up thinking that the reason their opinions are suppressed is because they never really mattered and not because how the misogyny never gave women a chance to speak up.
      Women are expected to be good mothers, act sensitive and "behave". While men out there are expected to be masculine and tough because they, apparently, are the foundation of the family and the family, supposedly, won’t survive without them. Women's actions are humiliated while men doing the same thing is overlooked. Parents are so determined in raising good daughters, but they miserably fail in raising good sons. The society has a very ill definition for a "good girl", stating a complete propaganda on how girls should behave but there is no such obligation for boys. When its nothing new for a girl to cry, a boy crying is told that boys don't cry. Phrases such as "Be a man" are thrown at them, damaging their self-esteem. Why is it potrayed that, crying, which is merely an emotion, a feminine concept?
     Women not getting fundamental rights is real thing. Women being oppressed is a real thing. Why is their voice not heard? Why is everything that a man says, given a priority, even if a woman says the same thing even before he does? The only possible explanation for this can be, a woman is considered irrelevant just because she is a woman.
    The society is so afraid of women that they provide no space for women to grow and bloom. Their voices are so manipulatively oppressed, oftentimes making them believe that this is how it should be and how apparently, it is justified.
     The National Crime Records Bureau has confirmed that a majority of all the 4.05 lakh crimes against women were registered under domestic violence. Despite so many registered crime rates of domestic violence, it is still considered one of the most under-reported crimes in our country.
     When you look at it logically, Patriarchy is a system designed long ago by the men, for the men and to the men. And it still is followed with the same intensity, because the internalised beliefs are so deeply enrooted in the minds of the society, that no matter how many people stand up for gender equality, build up associations and protest demanding women's rights, the mediocrity of the largely populated male community won't let that happen.
    Its high time we all realise that we all deserve to be treated the same, irrespective of gender. Parents need to raise their children in such a way that not only creates good daughters but also teach their sons that it's okay to express their emotions wholeheartedly. Above all, we need to create dutiful human beings who understand and respect the rights of every community and take responsibility in standing up against the wrong. Patriarchal system is a much greater concern than it looks. 21st century and we still live in a world designed by caveMEN.
 
                                                                                                                                                                
